chapters 13 through 17 of the Gospel of John this is a LibriVox recording all
LibriVox recordings are in the public domain for more information or to
volunteer please visit LibriVox.org recording by Gabrielle C the Gospel of
John King James version chapter 13 now before the feast of the Passover when
Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto
the Father having loved his own which were in the world he loved them unto the
end and supper being ended the devil having now put into the heart of
Judas Iscariot Simon's son to betray him Jesus knowing that the Father had given
all things into his hands and that he was come from God and went to God he
riseth from supper and laid aside his garments and took a towel and girded
himself after that he poureth water into a basin and began to wash the disciples
feet and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded then cometh he
to Simon Peter and Peter saith unto him Lord does thou wash my feet Jesus
answered and said unto him what I do thou knowest not now but thou shalt know
hereafter Peter saith unto him thou shalt never wash my feet Jesus answered
him if I wash thee not thou hast no part with me Simon Peter saith unto him Lord
not my feet only but also my hands and my head Jesus said to him he that is
washed needeth not save to wash his feet but is clean every whit and ye are clean
but not all for he knew who should betray him therefore said he ye are not
all clean so after he had washed their feet and I taken his garments and was
set down again he said unto them know you what I have done to you ye call me
master and Lord and ye say well for so I am if I then your Lord and master have
washed your feet ye also ought to wash one another's feet for I have given you
an example that you should do as I have done to you verily verily I say unto you
the servant is not greater than his Lord neither he that is sent greater than he
that sent him if you know these things happier ye if you do them I spate not of
you all I know whom I have chosen but that the scripture may be fulfilled he
that eateth bro with me hath lifted up his heel against me now I tell you
before it come that when it is come to pass you may believe that I am he
verily verily I say unto you he that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me
and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me when Jesus had thus said he
was troubled in spirit and testified and said verily verily I say unto you that
one of you shall betray me then the disciples looked one on another doubting
of whom you spake now there was leaning on Jesus's bosom one of his disciples
whom Jesus loved Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him that he should ask who
it should be of whom he spake he then lying on Jesus's breast saith unto him
Lord who is it Jesus answered he it is to whom I shall give a sop when I have
dipped it and when he had dipped the sop he gave it to Jesus Iscariot the son of
Simon and after the sop Satan entered into him then said Jesus unto him that
thou doest do quickly now no man at the table knew for what
intent he spake this unto him for some of them thought because Judas had the
bag that Jesus had sent unto him by those things that we have need of
against the feast or that he should give something to the poor he then having
received the sop went immediately out and it was night therefore when he was
gone out Jesus said now is the son of man glorified and God is glorified in
him if God be glorified in him God shall also glorify him in himself and he'll
straightaway glorify him little children yet a little while I am with you he shall
seek me and as I said unto the Jews whether I go you cannot come so now I
say to you a new commandment I give unto you that you love one another as I have
loved you that you also love one another by this shall all men know that you are
my disciples if you have loved one to another Simon Peter said unto him Lord
whither goest thou Jesus answered him whether I go thou canst not follow me
now but thou shalt follow me afterwards Peter said unto him Lord why cannot I
follow thee now I will lay down my life for thy sake Jesus answered him wilt
thou lay down thy life for my sake verily verily I say unto thee the cock
shall not crow till thou hast denied me thrice
chapter 14 let not your heart be troubled ye believe in God believe also
in me and my father's house are many mansions if it were not so I would have
told you I go to prepare a place for you and if I go and prepare a place for you
I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am there ye may be
also and whither I go you know and the way you know Thomas said unto him Lord
we know not whether thou goest and how can we know the way Jesus said unto him
I am the way the truth and the life no man cometh unto the father but by me if
ye had known me you should have known my father also and from henceforth you know
him and have seen him Philip said unto him Lord show us the father and it
suffice with us Jesus said unto him have I been so
a long time with you and yet has thou not known me Philip he that has seen me
hath seen the father and how sayest thou then show us the father believe is
thou not that I am in the father and the father of me the words I speak unto
you I speak not of myself but the father that dwells with me he doeth the works
believe me that I am in the father and the father and me or else believe me for
the very work sake verily verily I say unto you he that believeth on me the
works that I do shall he do also in greater works than these shall he do
because I go unto my father and whatsoever ye shall ask in my name that
will I do that the father may be glorified to the son if ye shall ask
anything in my name I will do it if you love me keep my commandments and I'll
pray the father and he shall give you another comforter that he may abide with
you forever even the spirit of truth who the world cannot receive because the
seeeth him not neither knoweth him but ye know him for he dwelleth with you and
I will not leave you comfortless I will come to you yet a little while and the
world seeeth me no more but you see me because I live you shall live also at
that day you shall know that I am in my father and ye and me and I in you he
that hath my commandments and keepeth them he it is that loveth me and he that
loveth me shall be loved in my father and I will love him and will manifest
myself to him Jesus said unto him not asgarriate Lord how is it that thou
wilt manifest thyself unto us and not unto the world Jesus answered and said
unto him if a man loved me he will keep my words and my father will love him
and we will come unto him and make our abode with him he that loveth me not
keepeth not my stayings and the word which he hears not mine but the father's
sent me these things have I spoken unto you being yet present with you but the
comforter which is the Holy Ghost whom the father will send in my name he shall
teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance whatsoever I
have said unto you peace I leave with you my peace I give unto you not as the
world giveth give I unto you let not your heart be troubled neither let it be
afraid ye have heard how I said unto you I go away and come again unto you
if ye loved me you would rejoice because I said I go unto the father for my
father is greater than I now I have told you before it come to pass that when it
is come to pass ye might believe hereafter I will not talk much with you
for the prince of this world cometh and have nothing in me but that the world
may know that I love the father and as the father gave me commandment even so I
arise let us go hence chapter 15 I am the true vine and my father is the husband
man every branch and me that beareth not fruit he taketh away and every branch
that beareth fruit he purges it that it may bring forth more fruit now you are
clean through the word which I have spoken unto you abide in me and I in you
as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine no
more can ye except ye abide in me I am the vine ye are the branches he that
abideth in me and I and him the same bringeth forth much fruit for without me
ye could do nothing if a man abide not in me he is cast forth as a branch and
is withered and men gather them and cast them into the fire and they are burned
if ye abide in me and my words abide in you ye shall ask what ye will and it
shall be done unto you herein is my father glorified that ye bear much fruit
so shall ye be my disciples as the father hath loved me so have I loved you
continue ye in my love if ye keep my commandments you shall abide in my love
even as I have kept my father's commandments and abide in his love these
things have I spoken to you that my joy might remain in you and that your joy
might be full this is my commandment that ye love one another as I have loved
you greater love hath no man than this that a man lay down his life for his
friends ye are my friends if you do whatsoever I command you henceforth I
call you not servants for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth but I
have called you friends for all things that I have heard of my father I have
ye have not chosen me but I have chosen you and ordained you that ye should go
and bring forth fruit and that your fruit shall remain that whatsoever ye
shall ask of the father of my name he may give it you these things I command
you that you love one another if the world hate you you know that it hated me
before I hated you if you were of the world the world would love its own but
because you are not of the world but I have chosen you out of the world
therefore the world hated you remember the word that I said unto you the
servant is not greater than his Lord if they have persecuted me they will also
persecute you if they have kept my saying they will keep yours also but all these
things they will do unto you for my name's sake because they know not him
that sent me if I had not come and spoken unto them they had not had sin but
now they have no cloak for their sin he that hateth me hateth my father also if
I had not done among them the works which none other man did they had not
had sin but now have they both seen and hated both me and my father but this
cometh the past that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law
they hated me without a cause but when the comforter is come whom I will send
unto you from the father even the spirit of truth which proceedeth from the father
he shall testify of me and ye also shall be a witness because ye have been with me
from the beginning chapter 16 these things have I spoken unto you that ye
should not be offended they shall put you out of the synagogues yea the time
cometh that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God's service and
these things will they do unto you because they have not known the father
nor me but these things have I told you that when the time shall come you may
remember that I told you of them and these things I said not unto you at the
beginning because I was with you but now I go my way to him that sent me and none
of you asketh me whither goest thou but because I have said these things unto
you sorrow have filled your heart nevertheless I tell you the truth it is
expedient for you that I go away for if I go not away the comforter will not
come unto you but if I depart I will send him unto you and when he is come he will
reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and a judgment of sin
because they believe not on me of righteousness because I go to my father
and ye see me no more of judgment because the prince of this world is
judged I have yet many things to say unto you but you cannot bear them now
help me it when he the spirit of truth is come he will guide you into all truth
for he shall not speak of himself but whatsoever he shall hear that shall he
speak and he will show you things to come he shall glorify me for he shall
receive of mine and shall show it unto you all things that the father hath are
mine therefore said I that he shall take of mine and shall show it unto you a
little while and you shall see me because I go to the father then said
some of his disciples among themselves what is this that he said unto us a
little while and you shall not see me and again a little while and you shall
see me and because I go to the father they said therefore what is this that he
said a little while we cannot tell what he said now Jesus knew that they were
desirous to ask him and said unto them do you inquire among yourselves of that
I said a little while and you shall not see me and again a little while and you
shall see me barely barely I say unto you that you shall weep and lament but
the world shall rejoice and you shall be sorrowful but your sorrow shall be turned
into joy a woman when he is in travail has sorrow because her hour is come but
as soon as he is delivered of the child she remembers no more the anguish for
joy that a man is born into the world and you now therefore have sorrow but I
will see you again and your heart shall rejoice and you joy no man taketh from
you and in that day you shall ask me nothing barely barely I say unto you
whatsoever you shall ask of the father in my name he will give it to you hitherto
have you asked nothing in my name ask and you shall receive that your joy may
be full these things have I spoken unto you in proverbs but the time cometh when
I shall no more speak unto you in proverbs but I shall show you plainly of
the father at that day he shall ask of my name and I say not unto you that I
will pay the father for you for the father himself loveth you because ye
have loved me and have believed that I came out from God I came forth from the
father and then come into the world again I leave the world and go to the
father his disciples said unto him lo now speakest thou plainly and speakest
no proverb now are we sure that thou knowest all things and needest not that
any man should ask thee by this we believe that thou camest forth from God
Jesus answered them do ye now believe behold our cometh yea is now come that
ye shall be scattered every man to his own and shall leave me alone and yet I
am not alone because the father is with me these things I have spoken unto you
that in me ye might have peace and the world you shall have tribulation but be
good here I have overcome the world chapter 17 these words baked Jesus and
lifted up his eyes to heaven and said father the hour is come glorify thy son
that thy son also may glorify thee as thou has given him power over all flesh
that he should give eternal life to as many as thou has given him and this is
life eternal that they might know thee the only true God and Jesus Christ whom
thou has sent I have glorified thee on the earth I have finished the work which
thou gavest me to do and now oh father glorify thou me with thine own self with
the glory which I had with thee before the world was I have manifested thy
name unto the moon which thou gavest me out of the world thine they were and
thou gavest them me and they have kept thy word now they have known that all
things whatsoever thou has given me are of thee for I have given unto them the
words which thou gavest me and they have received them and have known surely
that I came out from thee and they have believed that thou this send me I pray
for them I pray not for the world but for them which thou has given me for
they are thine and all mine are thine and thine are mine and I am glorified in
them and now I am no more in the world but these are in the world and I come to
thee holy father keep through thine own name those whom thou has given me that
they may be one as we are while I was with them in the world I kept them in
thy name those that thou gavest me I have kept and none of them is lost but
the center prediction that the scripture might be fulfilled and now come I to thee
and these things I speak in the world that they might have my joy fulfilled in
themselves I have given them thy word and the world hath hated them because
they are not of the world even as I am not of the world I pray not that thou
should take them out of the world but thou should keep them from the evil they
are not at the world even as I am not at the world sanctify them through thy
truth thy word is truth as thou has sent me into the world even so have I also
sent them into the world and for their sakes I sanctify myself that they also
might be sanctified through the truth neither pray I for these alone but for
them also which shall believe on me through their word that they all may be
one as thou father are to me and I am thee that they also may be one in us
that the world may believe that thou hast sent me and the glory which thou
gavest me I have given them that they may be one even as we are one I am them
and thou and me that they may be made perfect in one and that the world may
know that thou hast sent me and has loved them as thou hast loved me father
I will that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am that they
may behold my glory which thou has given me for thou lovest me before the
foundation of the world oh righteous father the world hath not known thee but
I have known thee and these have known that thou hast sent me and I have
declared unto them thy name and will declare it that the love wherewith thou
has loved me may be in them and I am them end of chapters 13 through 17
recording by Gabrielle C